{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Country Reflections\
2013\
\
Hello dear friend,\
\
Or one could greet ya\'92 with one hand on a belt loop and another tipping the rim of a hat. Then you\'92d ask me how the day\'92s been going\'92, and I\'92d start trotting along bout how last week I helped good man Pete raise come states using a come-along, chains, vice grips, and a piece of wood. Ya see: states are friendly with the ground. So they take some coaxing\'92. \
\
I\'92d ask ya bout yourself and you would give me a ramble boyt the stock or how it\'92s great the sky is drinking\'92. \
\
Ain\'92t gonna lie, this here county living aint to shabby. \
\
Yea, slowed down life has been interesting. The most surprising is when you forget it\'92s pace isn\'92t LA or SF. I\'92ve only briefly touched cultural LA before I can here, so you probably could let me in on the it\'92s moments. \
\
And I do know people to whom that initial jargon would be applicable to. But of course that\'92s just one of those moments that makes a place seem unique. \
\
Working moments these past few weeks have been all over the place. Stuff around the house is what draws me into an open sky sort of life. There really is something wonderful about eat-work-eat-live-sleep. \
\
Although I\'92m not fully present in those types of country happenings, they still have a very real presence. \
\
\'97\'97\
\
Cycling has been a great part of my life here. The stoke factor has been pretty high. Before last week, the days were filled with gnarly ridingg and great company My riding pal pal, and mate in general, is leaving after next semester. That\'92s a bummer. He\'92s got a girlfriend to move closer too, so I\'92m happy for him. At least we\'92ll be pals in the long run. \
\
I am happy to say there are atlas two others that I can say that for. \
\
Other than that school and personal life have been filled. At the moment school is in the foreground. \
\
}