{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Summer 2014\
\
\
Celebrated Sabbath with Hebrew Christians last night.\
Brought us in like prodigal sons.\
\
We ate, and ate, and ate. \
God! We were drunk with food! \
\
From the Hebrew Christians we received God\'92s blessing. \
\
 Then we staggered back to our camp along the river,\
And slept under the Oregon stars.\
\
The next morning we swam in the river. \
We\'92d swim upstream with power strokes,\
Then we let our bodies fall with the gravity of the current.\
\
Thought some listened some:\
Wind rustles between the trees that line both banks of the river.\
A small white river bird warbles the sounds of it\'92s name.\
\
Faint brum of motors in the distance:\
	We are still in a city.\
\
A city:\
	People, community, lives,\
	desires, problems, motivations:\
		An cornucopia of experience.\
\
\
Later we picked black berries. \
Thorns snagged pants.\
Tongues prickled .\
Lips, fingers black. \
\
We walked across the parking lot and worshiped with the Church of the Vine. \
We were blessed by the ones who care for the weak. \
$40 in our pockets and prayers for safe travels. \
Authentic charity.\
\
\
\
\
\'97\
\
Eastward sun rose over the far bank: t\'92s early morning. \
Thoughts of a long day enter my mind.\
We aim south for Eugene. \
\
\
, along the gentle North flowing\
river of Salem.\
\
\
\
\'97\
\
	\
\'97\
\
\
}