To The East


*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

"After a fifth of a day on the road, We made our way through Sacramento.  Then
went East and into the woods, And along an Emerald River we stood.

We gazed into the depths of the translucent green, and swam with our spirits,
naked and free."

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

I took a breath and jumped. Cool water engulfed me.

It was not the first time I swam in a river. But here, on the outskirts of
Colfax, there was novelty, and a spirit of freedom: Unconstrained in an
environment that is unconstrained within the bounds of it's motion. We lived
beyond expectation.

My legs kicked and I rose to the surface. I wiped water out of my eyes and saw
my three companions Picnic, Schuyler, Akaiah.  All were at ease in the
wilderness. Give Picnic and Sky matches, rope, and a knife, and they could make
due in the wilderness for days.  They could trap for food, make shelter,
recognize the best land routes.  I am fortunate to have learned from them. The
third companion, Akaiah was an Australian Shepard. She would pant and excitedly
wag her tail-less rump in any moment of potential adventure.

The water was refreshing: We had driven 5 hours then hiked 2.

Our trip started in San Luis Obispo, a town on the Central Coast of California.
The drive took us inland to California’s Central Valley and we drove North
towards Sacramento. Sacramento is North East of the San Francisco Bay.  The Bay
being 200 miles north of is considered the Central Coast. At Sacramento we
continued North East into the Tahoe National Forest. We drove into a town
called Colfax and by luck came upon a trailhead. We unpacked our gear and made
our way into the forest.

Further down the trail the trees cleared and we were shown a large valley with
sides as steep as a V. A river flowed it’s way around rocks and bends at the
bottom of the valley. We decided our goal was to reach the river.

The path to the river was a steep, narrow strip of earth beaten into form by
previous feet. I used my right hand for support while I leaned into the siding.
The path was just enough to keep you from slipping down.  We made it to the
river. Clear blue green with a glass surface. We laid down our packs and
prepared to swim.

I stood on the edge of the river. The rocks and pebbles of the river bed were
within arms reach. Too shallow I thought. I moved up the river. The crunch of
loose rock under my boots gave way to faint thuds. I stepped onto a rock slab
that lay across the valley floor. One side of the slab pushed into the steep
incline of the V and the other extended into the river. It's sides were worn
smooth. At one spot the river had carved an indentation. The water sank from
clarity to a deep, opaque, dark green.

These waters endure. Held in the unwavering motivation that defines the natural
world.

I took a breath and jumped.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

We made camp of the other side of the river. I spread a tarp over the corse
sand and laid down my sleeping bag. After setting up our sleeping areas we made
dinner: Lentils and sardines. This would become a staple. We watched the full
moon rise. Shallow shadows fell from rocks and trees. Everything was covered in
a film of white.

Schuyler played soft melodies on his flute. The valley grew still and for some
moments listened to the notes that floated through the air. Yet even these
tones were droned out by the oncoming night. The river and creatures of the
valley resounded in an overcoming noise. The presence swept over us and we sank
beneath the waves of concsiousness.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*


In the morning the sun rose and continued it’s arc across the sky. The walls of
the valley cast encompassing shadows; the sun was not high enough to fill they
valley with light.

I rose from my sleeping bag, stretched, and unconsciously wondered how the day
would unfold. Where would we be in the evening? How would we get there?  Who
would we meet? These thoughts were unconscious because there was no time to
think: The present was too vivid.

We needed to get across the river. Yesterday evening we tied our pants, boots
and socks to our packs and waded through hip deep water. This morning we hoped
to avoid that chore. I laced my boots and walked down the river hoping to find
an alternative route. Akaiah bounded after me.

I returned without success. So we repeated last evenings actions. Once across
we were in full alert. The cool morning waters shocked us awake. We geared up
an hiked up the valley.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

Picnic left us. Drove back to San Luis Obispo.

So here we were: Three friends on the doorstep of the Nevada. Nevada lay across
the Eastern mountains ahead of us. Our goal was Utah. 620 miles. But this we
did not know. Our specific destination in Utah was not known either. That was
information still to come.

What we did know was this: 1. We had the gear and provisions to be independent
for several days.  2. There was one high-way, the 80.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*


An old fellow in a pickup gave us a ride from the trail head to the freeway.
We lay down our packs by the freeway on ramp and waited for our first ride.  20
minutes passed and a young gal, our age, pulled to the side of the on ramp.
She said was going to Reno. Her name was Bree. We took the ride.

We crammed our packs into the back seat and squeezed our way into the car.  It
was a small vehicle. Typical 4 door sedan with paint starting to flake.

Music drifted though the car and out the windows while we drove. The tones
swirled upward and dispersed into the air above the pine trees. We went though
a pass in the mountains that divided California from Nevada. We reached the top
and wound our way though the canyons to the base of the mountains. Drove past
the ‘Welcome to Nevada’ sign. It seemed to smile and say: “Ain’t no turning
back now”.

We got into Reno. Typical city. Highway running though it with suburbs spread
out on each side. Our bodies swayed left as the car veered a right off the
highway and into the suburbs. Bree needed to visit an acquaintance before she
could drop us off at a proper spot.

Bree pulled up to a house which was shaded by overgrown trees and covered with
flakey teal paint. Beer cans lined the walkway that led to the steps of the
front deck. Vines wrapped their way up the balcony posts. More trash on the
deck. Screen door was ripped and the main door was ajar. Bree pulled the screen
door aside and stepped into the house. We followed.

Inside was dimly lit. Curtains covering most windows. Stray rays of light
passed though illuminating  patches of the carpet, the disarray on a coffee
table and the part of a couch. A lump on the couch pulled a blanket further
over itself trying to get away from the light. The air was stale and tasted
damp. I walked though this room and into the kitchen. Dirty plates in the sink.
Sticky wood floor. It smelled like beer. Bree was talking to someone. I
followed a hallway and found a bathroom. Good thing I only had to stand.

Back in the car Bree took us to the edge of the city. Here was our best chance
of getting a ride East. She waved, made a U-turn and drove away. After an hour
we were picked up.

We looked out of the windows from the back seat of a black diesel pickup truck.
Our ride was entering a range of hills. These hills were significant because of
the physical barrier the hills formed between home and the land we were
entering.  Moments earlier we could see California, our home.

Home was where an ‘expected normal’ had been cultivated: A normalization of
routine, of surroundings, of friendships. All of which is expected to be there
the next day.

Home is where one is familiar. Now we we're strangers. On a lower level we had
begun to realize it; internalize this. The tether between ourselves and the
‘expected normal’ had been cut. We only had our supplies and wit to sustain and
guide us. Money would be scarce. I left my cash, identification, and credit
card in Picnic's car. This was realized when he was halfway home to San Luis
Obispo.  We only had Schuyler's credit card. It had a $200/month limit. $100
each for food and supplies. We felt displaced. Cast adrift on an ocean.  Small,
insignificant, and alone. The gray hills we passed through served to reminded
us. We reveled in this challenge. We had no hesitation.

The truck began to descend into open lands. We had entered the expanse of
Northern Nevada.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

Long miles traveled into barren lands.	Miles gained from outstretched arms, We
made our camp upon the wind blown sands.

Done we were with oily roads and large semi trucks.  God! Done we were with
asphalt and tar.  As we laid upon these wind blown sands, Dreams of forest,
valley, and hill were ours.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*


We were dropped off at a trucking town called Fernley.

Schulyer and I took notice our new surroundings. No longer could we see the
mountain range that represented California and the river we slept by. The lands
ahead were flat with hill ranges and rock formations dispersed throughout.
Barren brush land to the north. Dilapidated oil town to the south. The roads
smelled of diesel and gasoline.

There was a gas station near to where we were dropped off. Oily cargo trucks
crowded the local gas station. Drivers stepped out of the tall cockpits and
onto the asphalt. Others walked back from the station and clambered back into
their pods ready to continue their drive. Travelers filled their cars with gas.
No one planned to stay in this town.

Schuyler and I wanted to continue as well. We decided to wait by the on ramp.
There was a couple more hours of sun and we thought we might get to the next
town.

We looked at our map. The progress into Nevada was the width of an index
finger.  At this rate of travel it would take weeks to get across the state and
into Utah.

A cool wind blew across the land. The wind flapped the brim of my hat and blew
it’s way between the fabric of my clothes. I tightened my hat’s draw string and
pulled my shell layer from my pack: We needed something to break the wind.

We decided to call it a day after an hour of no success. We walked North under
the highway, past light industrial buildings and into the open land. This land
was sand and brush. We seeked a place out of the wind and out of sight. We
found a bush rooted on the top of a small sand dune.  Here we dug into the dune
and created dug outs to shelter us from the wind.

As we sat in our dug outs I thought of how this day unfolded. We woke up by the
river. Watched the sun chase the shadows out of the valley. We met Bree. Saw
the life of her friends. Then found our way to the the oily town of Fernley,
Nevada.

I started thinking about the place where Bree dropped us off: The outskirts of
Reno. That was the real door step. From our location by the freeway	we could
see the mountains we had crossed in the morning. Somewhere within the folds of
the mountains water trickles down to form streams which merge into a river.
Somewhere along the river four companions had cooked a meal, listened to the
quiet, and slept. And now, we lay in the sand. Huddled behind a bush covered
sand dune. I had never felt so alive.


*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

East To Lovelock

We made an early start in the morning. We hoped to catch the early birds on
their way to Utah.

I lay in my sleeping bag for a bit, still processing what had just occurred.
Two days ago I was sleeping in San Luis Obispo. Now we were in the brush lands
of Northern Nevada. But enough of that. We had things to do.

The sky was overcast and gave the surrounding area a dim feeling. A cool wind
blew through the area.

We ate had a breakfast of oats and dried fruit. When we finished Schuyler took
the pan let Akaiah lick the left overs. When she finished her chore he poured
sand into the pan. Then he rubbed the bottom using the sand to solidify and
clean any remains. A splash of water and the pan was fit for it’s next use.

Both of us spent time shaking sand from our clothes and sleeping bags. I rolled
up my sleeping bag, tied it, and strapped it to my pack. Then I folded my sleep
clothes and placed them neatly into the pack. We placed our food last, at the
top of the packs for easy access.

Akaiah also packed up. In her pack she carried her bowl, two large bags of dog
food, and her blanket. She was still getting used to the pack and would totter
back and forth when she walked.

When we were geared up we started walking through the sand and brush back
Fernley and the freeway.

After a few minutes of slogging through soft sand we made it to the northern
outskirts of the town. We walked past greasy looking truck repair bays and
truck washing stations. These structures were made of thin metal and had tall
roofs. Dark figures wearing cloth around their faces washed grime off the
wheels and bodies of trucks with high pressure hoses.

The day differed in disposition from last. Colder. More alone. Raw.  Wind
funnled under the freeway overpass where we walked. We steped onto the sidewalk
and continued past the gas station. We were headed to the Walmart.

We leaned our packs and gear against the side of a yellow claw-grab game
machine in the foyer of the Walmart. We tied Akaiah to our packs. Schuyler went
to buy food and I went to replenish our water supply. Walked into the bathroom
and washed my face. Felt raw. I filled Shuyler's 3 bottles and my water pouch.
Our water supply could last a day and a half. I walked back to the packs.
Schuyler came out a few minutes later. He bought 2 packs of rice, 4 cans of
sardines, and bread. I opened my journal and took note of the amount we spent.
$180 for the rest of June. Packed away the extra food, water pouch and journal.
Then we walked to the freeway.

Waited by the on ramp for an hour. Smiled the best we could. Tried to look like
honest adventurers; in our hearts we were. We were picked up by a pickup truck.
The driver felt country. He was hauling a dirt bike in the bed of the truck.
Was leaking oil so we had to be careful where we put our packs. Sat in the back
seat with Akaiah. Truck cab smelt of oil and chew. The driver reved the engine
and east we went.

Let Schuyler do the talking. My mind turned inward and imagined the truck
driver thinking:


*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

"65 down the 80.  Just picked up two stragglers and their dawg.  Asked me where
I was headed. I said East, East to Lovelock.

My cycle’s leaking oil, Told the folks to throw their packs as far back as they
could.	Was planning’ on ridin’ my cycle, But now I got these two…So I think
tomorrow I should.

Going’ 65 down the 80. Just another day on the road.	Thought I’d pick up
some traveling folk, to spice up another day driving’ this big sky road."

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

He was friendly. The fellow carried a dirt bike in the truck bed.  We loaded
our packs with care not to get them dripped in motor oil.  I climbed into the
rear seat with Akaiah at my feet. We started rolling.  We driver said he could
take us to the next city: Lovelock. I pulled out a notebook and passed the time
thinking and writing. After thirty minutes we pulled into Lovelock.

We ate lunch on the side of some railroad tracks. I prepared pieces of bread
and salamie for us. Satisfied, we walked to the freeway. Looking at our map we
had made little progress towards Utah. Maybe two fingers into the state of
Nevada. We were dismayed, but held onto a hope that we might catch a 'big
fish'.  While waiting we jested about casting out our arms reeling in car
rides.  Dirt-bike in truck-bed man was a small fish; someone just taking us
from town to town.

We needed was to cover ground. We needed a big fish. Gracefully, our needs were
met in abundance.

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

We waited and dreamed of where these cars were going. Getting a ride in an RV
is a distant hope: Many people driving to far places have their minds attent on
far places. What is there to notice about these backpackers standing near an
on-ramp? They're merely a passed highway sign. We hoped for good willed
travelers. The ones who traveled with complementary spirit. We did not choose
who we would contact, but goodness and darkness hold the walkways we are
destined for. All life is shadowed and illumed by light. Darkness and goodness
are expressed in a medium's inheritanced substance. And travel is a medium
where often goodness abound in the wills of those between destinations.

Time passed and Schuyler took nap. He has a sense for sequence; he had a hunch
we would catch a ride before he woke up.

I stood by the highway while Schuyler slept in the field. We had steady hope: A
hope that persists beyond excite. How easy to find hope within novelty and
enthusiasm. How different to keep still one's heart from doubt when one stands
past the point of inspiration.

Cars and trunks flew by for some time. And what else was one to do than to
stand, arm outstretched, with a smile on one's face? One becomes used to their
situation; it becomes hard to imagine any time beyond.


Then, in an instant, time's slowed clock, resumed it's forward movement.  A car
had pulled over. I called Schuyler from his sleep and let him approach first.
We walked with our packs to the small, humble sedan idling just beyond the
eastbound onway ramp of Lovelock's Highway 80. As we approached I was tentative
as to not bring my hopes up for disapointment.

I stood back with Akaiah while Schuyler talked to the driver through an open
window. Schuyler stepped back and walked towards me. He smiled.  The driver
opened the door and stepped out. He had white hair, was average height, a bit
round in the middle, and held a gaze of understanding beneath his friendly
eyes. His first words were: "Hello, I am Duane, a crazy inventor."

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

Duane lived in Wyomming. He was in California for a business conference.
Something to do with designing products for the Chinese. Later we would learn
more about his creations.

At the moment we were amazed by providence. Initially Duane drove past us on
the highway. But he said something within him told him to turn around. So he
did.

How easy it is to let such thoughts go. So many cars had regarded us as
scenery.  (Or not regarded us at all.) Yet, something had moved Duane to see
us. He pulled off the next exit, returned the opposite direction, pulled off,
and drove onto the Eastbound onway ramp where Schuyler, Akaiah, and I were
waiting. So it happened that  Duane opened the door to our trip; and as we
would see, his blessing, wisdom, and witness.

This turn of events was surprising. Just as surprising was that as we were
driving East down highway 80, I was behind the steering wheel.


*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*


This chance encounter had even more to give. But this we did not know. What we
did know was that we were on our way to Salt Lake City, Utah.

The road was long and the landscape drear. High gray clouds diffused the sun's
light.  Rocky formations stood distant and scattered among the wide space
around us. For some time we followed a river. Trees and bushes followed a neat
line east. Their greenery stoodout from baren sands. We would have followed the
water's side had Duane not delivererd us.

The drive took us towards the mountains of Elko, Nevada. As we approached we
saw looming thunder clouds. Streaks of lightning flashed from within the dark
forms. Thankfully, we were safe within our small rolling vessel. Rain cast
itself down as we entered beneath the clouds.

We stopped in Elko to get gas and take a break. The rain had eased off, but
wind still flurled in wet gusts. After our stop Duane took the driver's seat
and we continued East. Barren mountains stood before the horizons as we drove.
We stopped once more at the border of Nevada and Utah. We bought subway
sandwiches.

Before us now lay the Utah salt flats. The highway felt like a bridge across
the muddy flats. In the distance we made out the mountains surrounding Salt
Lake City. 

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*

Duane told us he was in California meeting with other entrepenurs. He was
pitching an idea he believed would be useful in connecting Chinese factories
with American inventors.  He described it as a place where inventors could
display their ideas and Chinese business people could browse and choose what
they wanted to make. 

We also learned about a few of his inventions. When we loaded our packs into
the trunk I saw a contraption made of machined aluminum. Something built in a
labratory.  It was impossible to identify from a glance. Duane said the device
was a prototype crossbow that shot graphite shafts. 

Another invention he made was a snow ball thrower. You might see one while
shopping for winter clothing. It is made of colored plastic, has a long handle,
and a snow ball scoop at one end.  It was an entrepenurial hit for Duane. 

We learned that Duane grew up in the Utah mountains. He told us of expeditions
and survival in the wilderness. One day he had ventured into Uinta forest
looking for Aztec gold. Snow came in and he sheltered beneath a tree until the
snow passed. In his younger days Duane liked to pack mule teams and venture
into the wilderness. With a team of mules he could stay in the wilderness for
weeks. 

This idea of wilderness living struck a harmonious tone with me. I was(am)
perplexed by the movement of the world. I liked the idea of leaving the much
ado about nothing and finding peace in the stillness of the forest. Indeed,
that was Schuyler and I wanted to do just that. Spend time living in the
wilderness. Duane advised us what to expect. Although it was June, there high
mountains were white with ice and the lower mountains still experianced snow
storms. We were fortunate to learn from his experiance and insight.  

Duane kept telling us about his adventures in the mountains. He had a friend
who built a radio apparatus that could apparently penetrate the deep rock
caverns of the mountains.  I was dubious about it's application. Radio does not
travel far through rock. Regardless, they scanned for Aztec gold while flying
around the mountains in a two seated plane. The legends of Aztec gold are of
Mormon origin.

Duane explained the gold located itself into Utah because after the Spanish
sacked Central America they continued north into Utah. Evidently, the Spanish
hid their gold in the Utah mountains.  He explained he was a Mormon researcher.
The Spanish gold was one of his research interests.

Duane also explained the legend of Noah and the ark as they relate to his idea
of Mormonism. The ark was cast adrift fourty days and fourty nights and settled
somewhere in the Utah mountains. The ark is still to be discovered. Apparently
Adam and Eve are also buried somewhere in the Uinita National Forest. 

Duane told us stories like these all through our drive to Utah. What a blessing
that this man heeded the voice in his head and turned around to aid three
travelers. 

We had passed through Nevada and into Utah. During it all we were
informed and entertained by Duane's stories and ideas. Some eight hours had
passed with Duane and his little Honda. We were comfortable in traveling in
this bubble. Yet the nature of hitchhiking is dynamic. 

Our destination was Uinta National Forest; just outside of Heber City. Yet
Duane was headed towards the Utah-Wyomming border city of Evanston. We did not
want to push our luck and told Duane we were grateful for bringing us five
hundered miles. What were a few more days of travel compared to that?  Mentally
we made a mental egress from our bubble of comfort. When you travel like this
moments change quickly. One moment you are in the company of a benefactor,
and the next moment they have left you along the road side. The world of the
car: Converstation, music, stories, speed; evaporate. 

One is left with their pack, wits, and a new world. The streets are different,
everyone is unknown.  You do not know where you will sleep. Direction is
vauge; while a state map tells you the major highways and cities, it does not
tell you how many blocks you are from highway, or what streets are best to
walk. Everything is unfimiliar and often we would look for natural formations
to guide us. Yet, we knew is that we had partners beside us, that our 
gear was ready, and that we had supplies. 

But preparing for the road was unnessecary. Duane offered another blessing. 
 
*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*


It was late when we pulled into the driveway of Duane's small home. Snow
covered the ground of Evanston, Wyomming. The driveway led to an open air
covering. There was a canoe stored to the side. The car stopped and we stepped
out. The air was brisk and our boots crunched the icy cement beneath our feet.
We stood and looked out.

Lights of the neighboring houses twinkled beyond the falling snow. The warm
lights shone like a Christmas village. My hands reached deep into my pockets.
The skin of my legs felt close to the touch. My pants were of thin and airy
summer cloth. Duane told us there would still be snow this time of year. I was
grateful he told us; I would not have purchased long-johns in Elko otherwise. I imagined
venturing into the wilderness with a well warmed torso and a thin wrapped legs.
The cold scared me. I did not wish to freeze. 

Schuyler and I removed our packs from the trunk of Duane's car and carried them
inside the home. The home was warm and cozy in size. Duane quickly showed us a glass case
of Mormon artifacts, slab stones with strange engravings. On one counter saw a
picture of Duane in his younger days. The background was of blue sky, forest,
and mountaints. He looked rugged and stout in the foreground. In the picture he
led a horse packed with goods and two pairs of antlers. Perhaps this was taken
on his return to town. Duane went to bed soon after we arrived. 

He said we could stay in his home for the evening. In the morning he would drive us
into the Uinta Forest. I imagine it good fortune that the wilderness Schuyler, Akaiah, and I
were headed to was the same wilderness Duane explored in his younger days.  

Schuyler and I took showers and changed into our sleeping wear. We took the
opprotunity to take inventory of our packs. We removed all our gear and
supplies and spread them onto the floor. The plan was to stay in the Uinta
forest for three weeks. We decided we needed to fill our packs to the brim to
last that long. We repacked and made our gear ready for the morning.  

Our bodies released themselves to the cushions of the couch. Ours hearts did too; as
hearts do when inside a place called home. We were so gratified to be here. Not but
twelve hours ago did we think we would never make it through Nevada, yet alone Utah. 
Yet here we lay, cozy within four walls while outside snow fell and wind blew. 

What a blessing to be guided by an unexpected benefactor and kindred spirit.
The call of the wild that beaconed us to the wilderness too had beaconed Duane.
Perhaps there are callings that persist through all time. What a relief. How
amazing that we made it from California to Wyomming in two days. So distant did
home seem. And what could happen tomorrow? 

*__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—__—*
